---
layout: post
title: "Week 15: Identity, Budgets, and Creative Systems"
---

### Project Presentations 

This week was mostly project presentations, and the common theme was everyone having at least a single PR merged. 

We saw **KeyCloak**, which is basically about identity and authentication. It’s one of those systems you don’t think about until it breaks. Each member contributed to beyond what one would expect them to. Then there was **Nanobot**, which felt more experimental and harder to categorize, but in a good way. And **Affine**, which is US. 

<!--more-->

### More Presentations

The second lecture had a completely different energy. It felt like they were all related to budgeting and fiancial tools. Then there was **p5.js**, which is kind of the opposite direction: less about structure, more about expression. It’s a creative coding library, and what I like about it is how immediate it feels. The members were more on the communicative side of the project. Going into p5.js myself, I can say they do have a lot of repositories to go through and a very difficult issue finding problem. I'm impressed with the fact that each member was even able to find an issue, small ui or not, to work on. 

Finally, **Frosty** is something that seemed very interesting to work on. While I have not used it, I have played around with Twitch, and working on a project like that is just interesting. It's fun, it looks fun. Having stickers is fun too. 

### Reflection

Even when every project look totally different on the surface, they all have a structure to follow for contributing. Speaking on our own presentatiom, I feel that it's a good start to be able to voice out what our project is, our contributions, our best moments, and our challenges. The most I've gotten out of this was just working with people and understanding how to get started. At this point it feels less like “fixing bugs” and more like gradually learning how the system thinks.