---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: Business Models and Open Source in Industry"
---

### Open Source is NOT a Business Model

This week’s lecture was mostly about how companies actually use open source in the real world, and one idea that kept coming up is that **open source is not a business model by itself**. It’s more like a base that companies build on top of.

Before this, I kind of thought open source meant software that's open with no real business behind it but that’s clearly not true. There are actually a lot of companies making serious money from open source, just in different ways than normal software sales. Actually, I didn't even know how they're making money at first. 

<!--more-->

### Red Hat 

The Red Hat example was probably the most interesting one.

Back in the early days they were just selling in bookstores. That already sounds kind of strange today, but it showed something important, people weren’t paying for the code, they were paying for convenience.

Then they shifted into subscriptions instead of selling versions. That idea stood out to me a lot because it basically means: you don’t pay for the software, you pay for warranty.

And that turned into a billion-dollar company, which honestly surprised me a bit even though it makes sense.

### Make money?

We also went through a bunch of open source projects, and it was interesting how many were actually used by big tech companies like Mozilla, Twitter, and more. A project I looked at was Intern, it's a software testing framework. At first glance, it just seemed like a tool no one has ever heard of but when you read through the documentation, it's being used by many widely known companies. In fact other open source tools are intersected with this idea.

Overall, this lecture made open source feel less like a “community coding thing” and more like a full business and industry strategy. It's something I haven't thought about at all when looking at open source as a whole. 