---
layout: post
title: "Week 11: Cathedral vs Bazaar"
---

### Cathedral or Bazaar?

This week, I found myself going over how software is built. The **cathedral model** feels like a carefully planned masterpiece where everything is controlled, reviewed, and polished before it sees the light of day. The **bazaar model**, on the other hand, is more chaotic. It’s messy, but somehow it works. I hadn’t realized just how passionate people get about these distinctions.

Then when you throw in AI tools, it gets scary. AI can suggest fixes in seconds but this now means we might need a more "cathedral-style" to make sure it doesn't break anything. AI is really just a tool that gathers all the information in the world and that covers both fake and real data. Sure, it's fast but would someone say it's 100% accurate all the time, that's a hard no. 

<!--more-->

### Other Groups

When taking a look at other groups, it's clear to say every group is on the same progress as ours. There are some groups such as Actual Budget whom had complications with reproducing an issue which our team haven't encountered yet. Though, overall most groups for example, the P5.js group is also working on their individual issues and waiting for their PRs to get merged. A difference I noticed is that their team tackled upon documentation issues and ours more so on UI/UX. Another difference I noticed is that while we are similar in terms of progress, their codebase community is much bigger and way more active. There are weekly meetings that p5.js hosts specifically for contributers while for Affine, the only communication we have is Discord which usually isn't active. However, it was a surprise to me how quickly our PRs are being merged. 



### Project Progress

On the project front my group, Affine, is racking up our PRs pretty well. Each of us have already gotten 1 PR merged and will be working on our next issue. My [PR](https://github.com/toeverything/AFFiNE/pull/14789) was a fix for a css issue that resolved around not being able to see the waveform in the horizontal card view of an audio file. It was most challenging finding the correct files and associated files that might need a change. Overall, the rest of my group has also worked on a series of UI issues, a few minor issues as well.  

Personally, I’m excited to dive deeper into non UI/UX stuff over the next few weeks. Our team has been experimenting with UI/UX issues and we were thinking of trying something more challenging. Fingers crossed we can pull everything together smoothly.
